docs/User Guide/User Guide/Note Types/Render Note.md, before:

# Render Note
<figure class="image"><img style="aspect-ratio:601/216;" src="Render Note_image.png" width="601" height="216"></figure>

Render Note is used in <a class="reference-link" href="../Scripting.md">Scripting</a>. It works by displaying the HTML of a <a class="reference-link" href="Code.md">Code</a> note, via an attribute.

## Creating a render note

1.  Create a <a class="reference-link" href="Code.md">Code</a> note with the HTML language, with what needs to be displayed (for example `<p>Hello world.</p>`).
2.  Create a <a class="reference-link" href="Render%20Note.md">Render Note</a>.
3.  Assign the `renderNote` [relation](../Advanced%20Usage/Attributes.md) to point at the previously created code note.

## Legacy scripting using jQuery

A static HTML is generally not enough for <a class="reference-link" href="../Scripting.md">Scripting</a>. The next step is to automatically change parts of the note using JavaScript.

For a simple example, we are going to create a render note that displays the current date in a field.

To do so, first create an HTML code note with the following content:

```html
<h1>Current date & time</h1>
The current date & time is <span class="date"></span>
```

Now we need to add the script. Create another <a class="reference-link" href="Code.md">Code</a>, but this time of JavaScript (frontend) language. Make sure the newly created note is a direct child of the HTML note created previously; with the following content:

```javascript
const $dateEl = api.$container.find(".date");
$dateEl.text(new Date());
```

Now create a render note at any place and set its `~renderNote` relation to point to the HTML note. When the render note is accessed it will display:

> **Current date & time**  
> The current date & time is Sun Apr 06 2025 15:26:29 GMT+0300 (Eastern European Summer Time)

## Dynamic content using Preact & JSX

As a more modern alternative to jQuery, it's possible to use Preact & JSX to render pages. Since JSX is a superset of JavaScript, there's no need to provide a HTML anymore.

Here are the steps to creating a simple render note:

1.  Create a note of type <a class="reference-link" href="Render%20Note.md">Render Note</a>.
2.  Create a child <a class="reference-link" href="Code.md">Code</a> note with JSX as the language.  
    As an example, use the following content:
    
    ```jsx
    export default function() {
        return (
            <>
                <p>Hello world.</p>
            </>
        );
    }
    ```
3.  In the parent render note, define a `~renderNote` relation pointing to the newly created child.
4.  Refresh the render note and it should display a “Hello world” message.

## Refreshing the note

It's possible to refresh the note via:

*   The corresponding button in <a class="reference-link" href="../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/UI%20Elements/Floating%20buttons.md">Floating buttons</a>.
*   The “Render active note” [keyboard shortcut](../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/Keyboard%20Shortcuts.md) (not assigned by default).

## Examples

*   <a class="reference-link" href="../Advanced%20Usage/Advanced%20Showcases/Weight%20Tracker.md">Weight Tracker</a> which is present in the <a class="reference-link" href="../Advanced%20Usage/Database/Demo%20Notes.md">Demo Notes</a>.

Commit message:

docs(user): improve documentation on scripts & active content

docs/User Guide/User Guide/Note Types/Render Note.md, after:

# Render Note
<figure class="image"><img style="aspect-ratio:601/216;" src="Render Note_image.png" width="601" height="216"></figure>

Render Note is a special case of [front-end scripting](../Scripting/Frontend%20Basics.md) which allows rendering custom content inside a note. This makes it possible to create custom dashboards, or to use a custom note editor.

The content can either be a vanilla HTML, or Preact JSX.

## Creating a render note

1.  Create a <a class="reference-link" href="Code.md">Code</a> note with the:
    1.  HTML language for the legacy/vanilla method, with what needs to be displayed (for example `<p>Hello world.</p>`).
    2.  JSX for the Preact-based approach (see below).
2.  Create a <a class="reference-link" href="Render%20Note.md">Render Note</a>.
3.  Assign the `renderNote` [relation](../Advanced%20Usage/Attributes.md) to point at the previously created code note.

## Legacy scripting using jQuery

A static HTML is generally not enough for <a class="reference-link" href="../Scripting.md">Scripting</a>. The next step is to automatically change parts of the note using JavaScript.

For a simple example, we are going to create a render note that displays the current date in a field.

To do so, first create an HTML code note with the following content:

```html
<h1>Current date & time</h1>
The current date & time is <span class="date"></span>
```

Now we need to add the script. Create another <a class="reference-link" href="Code.md">Code</a>, but this time of JavaScript (frontend) language. Make sure the newly created note is a direct child of the HTML note created previously; with the following content:

```javascript
const $dateEl = api.$container.find(".date");
$dateEl.text(new Date());
```

Now create a render note at any place and set its `~renderNote` relation to point to the HTML note. When the render note is accessed it will display:

> **Current date & time**  
> The current date & time is Sun Apr 06 2025 15:26:29 GMT+0300 (Eastern European Summer Time)

## Dynamic content using Preact & JSX

As a more modern alternative to jQuery, it's possible to use Preact & JSX to render pages. Since JSX is a superset of JavaScript, there's no need to provide a HTML anymore.

Here are the steps to creating a simple render note:

1.  Create a note of type <a class="reference-link" href="Render%20Note.md">Render Note</a>.
2.  Create a child <a class="reference-link" href="Code.md">Code</a> note with JSX as the language.  
    As an example, use the following content:
    
    ```
    export default function() {
        return (
            <>
                <p>Hello world.</p>
            </>
        );
    }
    ```
3.  In the parent render note, define a `~renderNote` relation pointing to the newly created child.
4.  Refresh the render note and it should display a “Hello world” message.

## Refreshing the note

It's possible to refresh the note via:

*   The corresponding button in <a class="reference-link" href="../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/UI%20Elements/Floating%20buttons.md">Floating buttons</a>.
*   The “Render active note” [keyboard shortcut](../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/Keyboard%20Shortcuts.md) (not assigned by default).

## Examples

*   <a class="reference-link" href="../Advanced%20Usage/Advanced%20Showcases/Weight%20Tracker.md">Weight Tracker</a> which is present in the <a class="reference-link" href="../Advanced%20Usage/Database/Demo%20Notes.md">Demo Notes</a>.
